K8s docs updates and initial reorganization (#10578)
cockroachdb/docs: v21.1/operate-cockroachdb-kubernetes.md

    <button class="filter-button" data-scope="manual">Manual Configs</button>
    <button class="filter-button" data-scope="helm">Helm</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="operator">
{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
If you [deployed CockroachDB on Red Hat OpenShift](deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes-openshift.html), substitute `kubectl` with `oc` in the following commands.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="operator">
## Apply settings

Cluster parameters are configured in a `CrdbCluster` custom resource object. This tells the Operator how to configure the Kubernetes cluster. We provide a custom resource template called [`example.yaml`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach-operator/blob/master/examples/example.yaml):

~~~ yaml
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/cockroach-operator/master/examples/example.yaml|# limitations under the License.\n| %}
~~~

It's simplest to download and customize a local copy of the custom resource manifest. After you modify its parameters, run this command to apply the new values to the cluster:

> {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

~~~ shell
$ kubectl apply -f example.yaml
~~~

You will see:

~~~
crdbcluster.crdb.cockroachlabs.com/{cluster-name} configured
~~~

The Operator will trigger a rolling restart of the pods to effect the change, if necessary. You can observe its progress by running `kubectl get pods`.
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="manual">
## Apply settings

> Cluster parameters are configured in the StatefulSet manifest. We provide a [StatefulSet template](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml) for use in our [deployment tutorial](deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster parameters are configured in the `StatefulSet` manifest. We provide a [StatefulSet template](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml) for use in our [deployment tutorial](deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html).
```

It's simplest to download and customize a local copy of the manifest file. After you modify its parameters, run this command to apply the new values to the cluster:

> {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

~~~ yaml
volumeClaimTemplates:
  spec:
    resources:
      requests:
        storage: 100Gi
~~~
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="helm">
The storage capacity of each volume is initially set in the Helm chart's [`values.yaml`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/helm-charts/blob/master/cockroachdb/values.yaml):

~~~ yaml
persistentVolume:
  size: 100Gi
~~~
</section>

You should provision an appropriate amount of disk storage for your workload. For recommendations on this, see the [Production Checklist](recommended-production-settings.html#storage).

### Expand disk size

If you discover that you need more capacity, you can expand the persistent volumes on a running cluster. Increasing disk size is often [beneficial for CockroachDB performance](kubernetes-performance.html#disk-size).

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="operator">
Specify a new volume size in `resources.requests` and `resources.limits` in the custom resource:

~~~ yaml
spec:
  dataStore:
    pvc:
      spec:
        resources:
          limits:
            storage: "100Gi"
          requests:
            storage: "100Gi"
~~~

> Then [apply](#apply-settings) the new values. The Operator updates the StatefulSet and triggers a rolling restart of the pods with the new storage capacity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then [apply](#apply-settings) the new values. The Operator updates the `StatefulSet` and triggers a rolling restart of the pods with the new storage capacity. 
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
Currently, only the pods are updated with new ports. To connect to the cluster, you need to ensure that the `public` service is also updated to use the new port. You can do this by deleting the service with `kubectl delete service {cluster-name}-public`. When service is recreated by the Operator, it will use the new port. This is a known limitation that will be fixed in an Operator update.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
</section>

## Scale the cluster

### Add nodes

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="operator">
Before scaling CockroachDB, ensure that your Kubernetes cluster has enough worker nodes to host the number of pods you want to add. This is to ensure that two pods are not placed on the same worker node, as recommended in our [production guidance](recommended-production-settings.html#topology).

If you want to scale from 3 CockroachDB nodes to 4, your Kubernetes cluster should therefore have at least 4 worker nodes. You can verify the size of your Kubernetes cluster by running `kubectl get nodes`. If you need to add worker nodes on GKE, for example, run this command and specify the desired number of nodes:

> {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

    Therefore, in order to upgrade to v21.1, you must be on a production release of v20.2.

    1. If you are upgrading to v21.1 from a production release earlier than v20.2, or from a testing release (alpha/beta), first [upgrade to a production release of v20.2](../v20.2/orchestrate-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html#upgrade-the-cluster). Be sure to complete all the steps.

    1. Then return to this page and perform a second upgrade to v21.1.

    1. If you are upgrading from a production release of v20.2, or from any earlier v21.1 patch release, you do not have to go through intermediate releases; continue to step 2.

1. Verify the overall health of your cluster using the [DB Console](ui-overview.html). On the **Overview**:
    - Under **Node Status**, make sure all nodes that should be live are listed as such. If any nodes are unexpectedly listed as suspect or dead, identify why the nodes are offline and either restart them or [decommission](#remove-nodes) them before beginning your upgrade. If there are dead and non-decommissioned nodes in your cluster, it will not be possible to finalize the upgrade (either automatically or manually).

>     - Under **Replication Status**, make sure there are 0 under-replicated and unavailable ranges. Otherwise, performing a rolling upgrade increases the risk that ranges will lose a majority of their replicas and cause cluster unavailability. Therefore, it's important to identify and resolve the cause of range under-replication and/or unavailability before beginning your upgrade.

Reviewer: Same comment as before on user guidance.

    - In the **Node List**:

>         - Make sure all nodes are on the same version. If any nodes are behind, upgrade them to the cluster's current version first, and then start this process over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Make sure all nodes are on the same version. If not all nodes are on the same version, upgrade them to the cluster's highest current version first, and then start this process over.
```

    Note that after finalization, it will no longer be possible to perform a downgrade to v20.2. In the event of a catastrophic failure or corruption, the only option will be to start a new cluster using the old binary and then restore from a [backup](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) created prior to performing the upgrade.

    Finalization only applies when performing a feature version upgrade (for example, from v20.2.x to v21.1). Patch version upgrades (for example, within the v21.1.x series) can always be downgraded.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. To check the status of the rolling upgrade, run `kubectl get pods`. The pods are restarted one at a time with the new image.

1. Verify that all pods have been upgraded by running:

>     {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

    ~~~ shell
    $ kubectl get pods \
    -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\t"}{.spec.containers[0].image}{"\n"}'
    ~~~

    You can also check the CockroachDB version of each node in the [DB Console](ui-cluster-overview-page.html#node-details).

1. Monitor the stability and performance of your cluster until you are comfortable with the upgrade (generally at least a day). 

    If you decide to roll back the upgrade, revert the image name in the custom resource and apply the new value.

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    This is only possible when performing a feature version upgrade (for example, from v20.2.x to v21.1). Patch version upgrades (for example, within the v21.1.x series) are auto-finalized.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

    To finalize the upgrade, re-enable auto-finalization:

    1. Start the CockroachDB [built-in SQL client](cockroach-sql.html). For example, if you followed the steps in [Deploy CockroachDB with Kubernetes](deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html#step-3-use-the-built-in-sql-client) to launch a secure client pod, get a shell into the `cockroachdb-client-secure` pod:

>         {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl exec -it cockroachdb-client-secure \-- ./cockroach sql \
        --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs \
        --host={cluster-name}-public
        ~~~

    1. Re-enable auto-finalization:

>         {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```

        ~~~ sql
        > RESET CLUSTER SETTING cluster.preserve_downgrade_option;
        ~~~

    1. Exit the SQL shell and pod:

>         {% include copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
```
